READING 11: the science of term structure
1. interest rate tree
no arbitrage opportunities for on-the-run(newly issued) bond
what we have here is recombining tree
assuming state-dependent volatility, it results in  nonrecombining trees

2. risk neutral
risk-neutral probailities: market price = discounted value using a binominal tree
risk-neutral probs - true probs = interest rate drift
risk-neutral pricing
- adjust the interest rates on the paths
- adjust the probs

3. option pricing
[1] price the bonds at nodes
[2] calculate the intrinsic value of option
[3] discount with risk-neutral probs

4. valuing CMT swap
CMT: constant maturity treasury
CMT swap: an agreement to swap floating rate for a Treasury rate such as the 10-year rate

5. OAS (option-adjusted spread)
the spread that makes the model value = current mkt price
only affect rates for discounting values, not estimating cahs flows

6. BSM cannot be used for pricing fix-income because:
[1] assume no upper limit. but bonds has max value when interest rate=0
[2] assume constant risk-free rate
[3] assume constant bond price volatility

7. bonds with embedded options
- callable bonds
issuer has the right to buy back at strike
for option-free bond, prices will rise unabated as yields falls
for callable bond at some point, price will start slow down and eventually level off - this is called negative convexity
- putable bonds
bondholder the right to sell the bond back at strike
at low yield levels, putable bonds is similar to non-putables because the holder will not excrcise
at high yield levels, putable bonds has more value

## ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
READING 12: the shape of term structure
1. pure expectations theory
term structre is a function of expected future spot rates
the shape of the spot rate curve is determined solely by expected future spot rates

2. the volatility of expected rates creates convexity, which lowers future spot rates

3. value of convexity increase with volatility
   the reduction in yields = value of convexity
   
4. value of convexity increase with maturity
   because the price-yield relationship will be more convex
